that is hot
welcome everyone to this week's IPL do
you think meeting is June the 8th 2020
and this every week we go over the stuff
that we've done in the past week
and the stuff that we might work on and
also discuss any items or questions
there might be and yeah so I start with
myself and so last week I finally found
really some time to put on the rest I
pulled this stuff yes currently a PR
open which it's a custom code hey Louis
which means that things are then fully
generic so you can just say okay
for example ipfs uses its own table
which is which supports like protocol
buffers they index Ybor they don't care
about tech chasing for example or you
build a special-purpose application it
only works on Dec JSON or your own codec
and you can pass in those kind of like
table implementations and then you don't
bundle the whole thing um and now like
with this PR the code is so generic that
it just works best for stuff if you
implement the right traits and that's a
huge step and also then enables me to
work on the block API so to me the block
API is still on it separate like small
truly application stuff but then also
the blog API should move in through the
core of ILD this is what I work on next
but now I'm really close so all those
other stuff that I've needed for the
body I mean in this PR is much and it
looks good but it will be much too hard
I'm ed I also did a bit of work on multi
base and I mentioned multi base because
it seems that the ILD team is more and
more owning the mod you format stuff as
well so I guess it's also like fair to
mention in the meeting is that recently
multi pays god support for
pace 36 also Peter wasn't Rost who had a
bit and I just yeah also implemented it
for us and then found out that text text
pictures could need some cleanup and I
did those and just yeah basically got
over it looked into it and also maybe
for discussions about should the basin
coatings that have only one kind of like
lowercase or uppercase characters be
case insensitive or not so if you are
into those discussions feel free to join
and yeah so this was also stuff and then
yeah I did a bit of FICO work which is
not interesting for this meeting and
that's I think they simply it next on my
list is Peter yeah I mentioned small
utility that I'm writing that interface
with the dagger agility that already
finished based what this does is can
like ipfs adds recursively from a
directory but does additional
multi-threading and reading from the
file system in a streaming fashion
quicker and additionally implements
various what I call three packs so that
I can easier demonstrate what happens
when you decompress parts that can be
decompressed within your let's say
Debian files or stuff like that and what
is the effect on this well at the same
time keeping the resulting files usable
so like for instance deb files can
actually be uncompressed and can be
verified and so no supports well the set
i'm being duplicated so an important
comment here also what
four dimensions with the multi base
stuff there is also an interesting
discussion that I started and I just
wrote to it earlier I remember surely
did not have time to read it yet what
can we put on the DHT reasonably these
days so for example the Bitcoin work
like how much of that and may actually
be put on the network to be available
and the answers to that are a little bit
concerning but we can we can sort of
circle to this and there after that is
cool
Thanks next analysis wrote okay there's
three main things but also a bunch of
just little things so still working on
Bitcoin docs for the specs repo that's
tedious work but it's like I have to get
this stuff out of my head and into the
spec stock and it's fine it's not
there's no big deal there it's just a
matter of actually writing coherent
documents that are structured well
enough to describe what's going on at a
sufficient level so I'm working on that
it's it's and pieces of it you are going
back to it
start working on Z cash dump their
blockchain thankfully it's it's much
smaller than big coin and much faster
and so far things are going smoothly my
codes not up to scratch for decoding and
encoding but it's it's it's a long it's
a lot of the way there and a lot of the
other utility stuff that I wrote to
manage the Bitcoin blockchain just
translates directly over so that ends up
being making it much smoother so far so
that's
um oh there was a no-no skip that one
I've also started looking at Tim's
selector syntax and doing that in go
Tim's having a little cool at the moment
we've been with being able to get
anything meaningful done and so which we
need this selector syntax the short hand
at the long end string syntax impossible
in to go data structures so I've started
that and then and just you know that
process of jumping from language to
language when you've been deep in one a
little bit jarring to get back to go
again after a few weeks very deeply in
JavaScript so I'm balancing those things
trying to get meaningful work done
that's that's me yep so I didn't get a
lot done last week just because my back
was hurting and I had a lot of like
manager stuff to do so yeah then I'm
kind of writing up Google Docs um didn't
really get much code done but a little
bit sort of end of last week weekend and
today I've gotten some J's multi-format
stuff done so I got some of Rods work
merged and some of their stuff reviewed
and early for me started on it and
merged in some documentation like a nice
table of all the plugins we've been
writing and then dag seaboard is ported
now today's multi formats now I'm
working on the rest of them
right now I've actually got the three
stuff up side of it what's right here
Rob did you have to do anything any like
hash functions or anything like that's
for the multi-format stuff or for
Bitcoin or was it all just straight-up
kind of quick and the end is a new hash
function that comes with the Bitcoin
codec so when
you had the Bitcoin code in ads a
double-shot to 256 okay but that's
that's part of the Bitcoin bundle okay
document did you have to do
also the repent 160 or that's not part
of the blockchain it's it's not part of
C IDs or anything so it's it's it's just
decoding for fields so but the only one
that you require for C IDs for the
Bitcoin thankfully it's double sure to
do 56 I wonder if we want to make that
its own library if you want to keep it
just as part of the Bitcoin bundle i've
not seen it used anywhere else so but
yeah we could definitely make it
separate if we wanted to but for now
just and i in the readme on documenting
it when you add this thing to multi
formats these things there's four things
that you get okay I'll just rethink how
some of this is documented if you look
at the new Docs there's like a section
where we we have bundles that have like
a bunch of different like has some hash
functions and codec stuff like that like
the basics bundle that it comes with and
then a breakdown of like each package of
based encodings or codecs or whatever
and so it makes a little awkward to have
a package below that's not a bundle that
has both codecs and hashing functions so
we'll just figure out I was nice the
documents listed twice yeah yeah I guess
we can just do that that's fine yeah yes
it's trivially implemented so if
somebody wanted it separately I mean
they could just require it out of the
library there's a separate require if
you want it maybe yeah it's like it's
like how you've got shot to document a
day you can do the same thing for
Bitcoin slash thinking of requiring deep
in the package what do we think about
ESM right now oh so it came out from
behind a flag in LTS node so we're good
to use
yes modules
in our note code now if we want to I'm
trying to figure out how much work it
would be to get all of our tooling up to
date like I don't know what Paulette
like I don't think that pollen Deena
will work in particulars I just want to
bring up this so we are aware that we
had not ipfs but I have opened an issue
on the ipfs repo clarifying like which
versions are supported and I'm going
discussions like which versions of notes
should be supported which not I think
and it is between likes to a current
currently the current says the most
recent LTS which would be 12 and the
questions if we should also focus on the
support no 10 for example but I mention
it because like if we say we don't
support 10 obviously I profess also can
support him so it just yeah I mean so
last time I checked I IVFs said latest
LTS and then I don't think they they
realized that that meant 12 instead of
10 now and now they're debating whether
or not they want to keep supporting Tim
exactly yes um yeah yeah and like in my
view like that's not I don't even have
that discussion like it's it's 12 now
like it's fine if things still work in
10 but like yeah don't hold yourself to
that I mean you have to like if you
don't keep up then you're gonna end up
too far behind the problem anyway but
the reason that this is important for us
is that the multi formats library in
particular but really across our
packages there's been a lot of we've
seen a lot of problems importing files
within a package that weren't explicitly
exported when people like relying on
thing of the word specific so with ESM
you actually get the ability to
explicitly export individual files and
nothing else so you can actually keep
internal modules internal and also those
imports are a lot they're less expensive
now as well I'm for importing individual
exports
so anyway that that's something that we
should look at as we're going along I
mean yes but like I said I need to
figure out where to lay doesn't does not
work don't do stuff like like I was
saying with broad like I don't know if
Paula Deen is gonna support that I like
package exports presidents that would
need to be explicitly supported by the
compiler and I don't know if the
compiler configuration that we're using
won't support that I imagine that's just
a configuration change but I just
haven't played enough with it with use
him maybe it's time to yeah yeah I feel
the same way I was gonna just start
porting a big library but I think I may
make a smaller library first so so I
would be like I would say we should I
brought the newer stuff like Whitney's
so I mean we couldn't be have the older
stuff like that case I probably the iPod
d-day TV and so on and we have the new
stuff like the new chase multi formats
and so it would be me I would say we
should pour the newest stuff two years
in modules but definitely not taught the
own stuff like the old stuff is just
like stay as it is agree yes and I think
we could base it take the chance of as
we already have the new stuff and it
will break things and people need to use
new stuff you can also just go ahead and
just use him but I don't know if it
makes too many things then but yeah if I
would need to make the call I would say
we should feel free to use em for the
new stuff but yeah yeah I'll do a small
library and see what things working
which ones down it'll be interesting to
see for instance it's like the github
actions update their latest LTS quickly
things like that cool okay
that's all for me are there any updates
by anywhere else
then oh I want to just mention that
Korea's also like work on J as IPL d-day
protocol buffer stuff by Kosala who is
working on basically making more usable
and using the so we already respect
which describes the take protocol
buffers in IPL did schema and to align
the current codec more to this which
ends up with the coding will be easy to
use and also for hysteresis pearl also
in general and the things are shaping up
and they look good I just want to be
basically giving this update as well
that is it's also I probably related so
if anyone uses the iPod D deck stuff in
JavaScript moving update coming which
will make things pretty much nicer cool
anything else so if there is nothing
else I would like to bring up so I had a
conversation with a couple folks about
the DHT and it looks like that we
actually have a pretty low hard limit on
how much can we
but how much how many discover will see
ages who can inject in the into the
current Network even if it grows tenfold
unfortunately that's one of the
concerning personal versions we don't
have like health numbers but this raises
the question for example rats work with
Bitcoin
soon a number of design decisions were
made in such a way that you like arrow
transaction you convert them to a CID
somehow and then you look for the CID
it is not possible to put most of the
see IDs in a discoverable format how do
we like deal with that because the
current think on the gate on David as
gateways is essentially that you have
some kind of route and you give you
stats he IDs a route and then you do
unnamed based selector above that which
means that when your node resolves this
selector back to the root CID it knows
why this world who to ask
that being the currently connected peers
is no stressed and for this e88 resolved
off of that would see ad but if you just
have like the Dipsy idea of a
transaction or whatever there is nobody
to give it to you even if somebody has
it on their hard drive there is no way
for them to announce it on the network
they have that so thoughts on this so I
mean there's there's threads going back
several years now that it's not
sustainable to put every CID in the DHD
like in a in a large data structure and
there's like a lot of different thoughts
people put into for alternatives
discoverability mechanisms so whether
that's just like oh hey I'm in this M in
this network that does Bitcoin e stuff
and like ask this network for cities and
and that's how we're discovering people
or all the way to okay you know like
let's take a selector for like a certain
number of the blocks or like a certain
part of the data structure and only put
those in the DHT and use that for
discoverability but nobody's like sat
down and really implemented it yet and
particularly like on the on the IPSS
side yeah I don't know of anything
sophisticated enough like to really do
this
mostly like in the realm of you know
alternatives type you have us at that
point so all right I was actually asking
a little bit differently and I guess
there's a question to rod mostly when
you implemented your way of breaking
down the blockchain into you know into
blocks did this was this basically taken
into consideration that some of the
parts of the blockchain
are only reachable by a select and not
by CID directly Roger you're needed both
stuff to start with the way I broke it
down was simply to match the way that
they have built it so the you know the
it has its own built in idea of what a a
hashed chunk of data is so it's matching
that but secondly they the aim was never
to put it on ipfs I'd like to put some
of it on ipfs just as an example but I
think a lot of the work that we do is I
peel D doesn't doesn't account for ipfs
we we we treated IPL D as a as an
independent thing that could be
implemented it could be part of ipfs but
also it could be separate or ipfs could
have its own distribution mechanism so
you know that wasn't it that was never a
constraint for this work and and then
and thirdly the one of the goals of this
work was so that you could take existing
Bitcoin block IDs and transaction IDs
and find them by CID in whatever storage
mechanism this stuff was stored in and
so that that constraints been met it's
just that it the way that they the way
that Bitcoin decomposes introduces a lot
of noisy intermediate blocks because of
these these binary Merkle trees inside
of the inside of the the block graph so
it's just not really much of a way
around
you know that to make this nice and neat
and even if even if you were to get rid
of the noise you know we're still
talking a lot of transactions in every
block graph like it's this is a lot of
data you could Rhian code all of these
things and come up with an entirely new
cid for every Bitcoin block graph but
those C IDs would have no relationship
to anything in the Bitcoin world they'd
just be essentially random but you could
do that and then end up only having
600,000 blocks on ipfs and each block
would contain everything that's that's
entirely possible but I just don't know
how useful that is I mean the reality is
like the disparity between the sort of
maximum number of entries you can put
into the HT and the maximum number
interest you can put into any other
storage mechanism that you might use is
pretty huge like we're just not worried
about a few million like records in any
key value store or in a CDN or in any
other way that we distribute so we just
can't really like take that into
consideration when we're designing going
I mean just looking at the data that we
processed for the file coin Lodge it's
billions of blocks like billions and
billions of locks
so they clearly like I guess I guess I'm
more like because my understanding is
that currently every CID maps to a block
essentially in the in a Bitcoin work
whereas the resource of talk of IP of
the having you know what is a logical
block being separate from what is like a
CID addressable block kind of thing well
this is this is the problem in the
Bitcoin world is that the terminology of
block is really weird because because
they've they've taken block to mean this
thing that is produced every ten minutes
the entirety of that thing but it's not
what they're having to produce the
digest to bridges the address what
they're hashing is the 80 bytes that's
so so a Bitcoin block
is really a blockhead er addressed by 80
bytes and then you've got this graph
attached to it that is other blocks and
so what I've done and what I'm doing in
my documentation that I'm writing now is
being really clear about that that the
definitions here and saying when the in
the Bitcoin world when they say block
it's not what we say with block so I'm
saying block graph to refer to what they
would say is a block it's one is
produced every 10 minutes but it is a
graph of multiple blocks because they
also address individual transactions and
you can go in you can query the Bitcoin
core or one of these block explorers for
transactions what are they well okay
they're within a block but they're also
addressable individually so this is
confusion of terminology I don't think
was ever cleared up properly in the
Bitcoin world that I'm trying to be much
more clear about in this work that there
are multiple blocks within a block graph
that is produced every ten minutes
yeah it's messy it's really messy but
but when you break it down into okay
what are the chunks that they produce
these digests for then you can see that
there is actually graph a coherent graph
of of what we would call blocks and it's
a single hash function and it makes a
well-formed graph except for the sigmoid
garbage it's still it's still a graph so
yeah and you look like every individual
node and you made it into an actual yeah
and the miss the main messy piece about
that us putting seg we decide is the
that Bitcoin treats the binary Merkel
tree that traverses from the header to
the transactions it treats that as
implicit and so it doesn't store the
internal nodes of that binary Merkel
tree in its own binary format it just
says all that thing exists and you can
compute it and just waves it away and so
what I'm doing is actually computing it
and storing it so there's these in small
nodes in between the header and the
transactions that form a tree this nice
binary tree and each of those internal
nodes has its own will have its own CID
essentially because it is there bitcoin
does computer it just doesn't store it
yeah I guess I'm really asking all this
to give like a better idea for example I
know for Chris's use case right with the
medical imaging stuff like that that's
more or less the same bag of problems a
huge tree that you cannot really you
know advertise direct is so like yeah I
viewed IV this is this is IP FSS problem
no else you know we we want to address
data and so we're just doing that and
we're using the tools available to us
and we're trying to be agnostic about
storage format which is why in that um
in that graph that chart about what is
IP LD that's floating around and the
specs repose a copy of it you know pull
requests but that has its license Li PLD
as being you know the applications it's
above but the storage layer sits below
and it's like that's not our concern and
we're gonna use different storage layers
Michael's working on dag DB we've done
things before with the blocks just sit
on on disks and thinking's you sittin up
and I'm database you put them in s3 any
car files are like basically a storage
bin as well yeah yeah and I've
implemented that as if as a queryable
database yeah I mean the thing to
remember here is like if ipfs just do
something along the lines of oh here's a
data set and here's a selector and just
the things that match the selector what
you should put in the DHT that's enough
to take the whole Bitcoin data set and
then basically put in the DHT all of the
block graph identifiers which are what
like Bitcoin tends to look at is its
addresses so that would be enough to
like and and and from there you can get
anything under the graph right so it's
actually pretty trivial to go like oh I
need some data and I know that it's
somewhere in this transaction ok now I
can find the peers that have it and then
go down the graph and ask them for it
right as I put the data it's all fixable
once the
teachers that exist in ipfs right now
they really gentle and we don't really
have any control or all that much input
into when that happens so it's best to
just not really think about that
he's the piece that really sucks with
Bitcoin is that you can take if you have
a transaction ID but you've stored
because it was your transaction and you
want to look it up on ipfs it's and say
we did sealed this all in DFS you could
get that transaction but it would be
devoid of witness data so if there was
witness that are attached it wouldn't be
where you look for it and you would have
to navigate backwards to find it so
which you just can't do there's no way
to get from if you only had that
transaction ID okay I can see the
transaction but so what
I don't know what header it's attached
to I don't know how to go back up so I
can go back down and find the witness
data it's just a thing in isolation so
that's that's the thing that's the sucky
bit about about Segway is that they
those the transaction IDs don't give you
the full transaction you've got to find
the full version of a transaction
elsewhere so it's almost like the data
set actually can legit benefit from
index that is being very well seen this
is being shipped with the data set
itself yep yep so this is actually
starting to sound like a more generic
problem where because I have this in
Dague to be to where like there are
there are structures that I've sort of
attached to the the side of other data
so I have like a primary data structure
and then I want to create indexes of it
so there's basically like a new block
now that references both of these the
index and the primary store and like
often you may have a primary store or
have an index and want to get at the
what one or the other and there's no
reference inside of either of those
trees to each other there's only a
reference from from that header that's
about so that's something we're like we
may want to have something in there were
like you know related data or linked
data or something along those lines
where you can actually query a node for
what
would locks do you have that link to
this block there's a reverse tree
traversal thing here that would be
generically useful reverse reverse from
where though right because you could
have and you can have n number of things
that limits right so you you never know
which one you're talking about but one
thing that like I do have a day to be is
that all of the storage layer stuff so
s3 file like like everything it stores a
reverse index so you can always find all
of the blocks that link to a particular
block and that's really important if you
want to do smart garbage collection
because it's the only way for you to go
and figure out like was this the last
thing linked to this that I could clean
it up I wonder how useful schemers with
this because they tell you the important
relationships because it's one thing
that I haven't done with Bitcoin yet
which is doable is the links between
historical transactions so every
transaction links to the previous
transaction where the dirt where the
coins came from and so you've got this
the header which forms the headers that
form the coherent blockchain of one
block to the next in between but also
within the transactions they link to
each other in this sort of arbitrary
manner but there's there is this other
dag that links these blocks together or
the block graphs together and it would
be nice to be able to traverse from one
transaction to the previous transaction
that had held those coins to the
previous and but they're sort of they
sit aside and currently in my schemers I
don't I don't even represent those as
links yet so and that's the doable but
not important right now
still though from from a storage that
even with schemas from a storage layer
perspective if you say here is a CID
this is the schema that you still don't
know what the parent was right like you
only know how to how to attach schemas
to the children on that to whatever the
route was so and and and it's not static
anyway because yeah
one one provider of this could have
built completely different like
supplementary graph to another provider
so we almost need the selector to ask a
provider like hey what else do you use
this for give me that one thing that you
could use schemas for is that if you
were doing that queer that I talked
about earlier really said give me the
blocks that link to this you could say
give me the block - link to this that
match the schema and then it it would at
least pair it down to just the things
that match what you believe the parent
scheme is supposed to be well what what
about the case like I'm thinking Bitcoin
here obviously but where you I I add a
graph to like dag DB say then and I
added according to a schema so I've got
a set of blocks that goes in and by the
way these set conformed to this entire
like the schema mapped onto the set
here's the whole lot because that's
that's my use case where I here's the
whole lot of all these blocks on what
your store and he's the schemer about
how they link together maybe you could
do something clever about how they link
together and so I can query them later
on yeah but like another doesn't scale
to every use case yeah no I mean like
you could always create an index right
like that's the handles right is it big
like so first of all what you store is
always reference from that root of that
schema when you store it in the primary
store but I imagine that you're putting
in the day because you can get some kind
of better indexing on all the values and
then those values are in an index and
you know the semantics that are match
whatever that index does which is
open-ended at this point I mean like the
way the indexing and even works is that
it's it's hyper generic so we can create
indexes that look like pretty much
anything in the in the context of UNIX
address for example it would be here is
it assess the idea of a stream tell me
what how names or what you know tell
files or what are clear images you know
match this contain this thing
that's cancer yep that that again I
think would look like the give me the
block the link of this then not just
even more aesthetics lumen but it's more
give me like the change like it's it's
not exactly the the first block that
links to this but the first parent in a
chain of blocks that link to this that
measure the schema in the image right
yeah yeah crazy stuff alright okay I P
FS channel crap sync has been delayed is
there any more info on that that that's
related to graph syncing go alright no
no that's specific to to grossing
interest and therefore and so all the
information is that basically that the
team that works on or wanted to work on
graphs again rest
I'm just postpones in a bit and has
other priorities and we'll get back to
it it's some data point but yeah it's
open when so there's no more information
about it also the person that was doing
the work and ago implementation is also
being pulled off for something else and
also the person that was doing things in
JavaScript on our end to get it working
it's also no longer working on it so I
think related like in every language
yeah everybody is sort of aware system
cash flows like had like I mean he's got
like a family of five under quarantine
right now and everything so it's just
been a bit more bit too much to stay on
top everything so his kind of part-time
contract with us it's ending now and so
he won't be working on the selector
stuff anymore he may come back at a
later date
like it's it's just sort of like up to
him when he decides he has the bandwidth
to come back so that particular selector
stuff is it's just getting set down for
a minute while we figure out who's gonna
do any win it may end up being me at
some point in time but we'll see what
the prior they can look like all right
okay cool that's I just like to say I
want to hear a little bit more about
just I think everyone knows I'm very
interested in graph sync so was hoping
to get plugged into any development
there but if that's something to plug
into note I've been like immersing
myself and rust the past two weeks now
at like basic competency so what's that
that's a good achievement that one
apparently yeah you know yeah I'm
actually because oh yeah so I am
planning for my project I did the
prototype in JavaScript I'm wanting the
production of stuff and rust so that's
kind of why do you go forward stuff so
anyway that's yeah so just in case you
want to get into rust and graphs and I
think you know Rico correctly also like
on the on the on the epics channel there
is the theme is our KLH and I think who
is from xyx who is also in I think
interested in crafting and they also do
a ton of rust stuff so just it might be
interested to really catch up with him
if they do anything in this regard
because like they might yeah might also
look into it or if he have ideas about
it just to make sure that you busy and
catch up with them in case you're going
to get into it and that there aren't any
top of their phones but this would be
basically I think the only person
currently who would like everyone else
is not looking into it now and he might
be the only person who might be still
look into it yeah okay yeah I don't know
I got plenty stuff to work on so I'll
probably rather go The Lone Ranger route
try get plugged in at once activity
resumes so yep cool yep
that's fine as well actual yeah cool
okay then I close the meeting so goodbye
everyone and see you all next week
goodbye I have one private thing for the
team real quick um about one of the
internal politics wait wait wait you